in this lecture,
we're going to explore user data Graham Protocol or UDP,
which comes in the UDP data Graham module that no provides UDP.
If you're unfamiliar with it,
it's part of the core PPI stack.
Like he CPS and the primary differences,
you can think of most TCP HDP connections as handshakes.
You can think of one node reaching out to another dem,
agreeing on a protocol and sharing information between them.
UDP is more like one node sending off information to another in hopes or on the assumption
that that recipient might receive it.
UDP is like mailing letters off to someone and just assuming that they're reading them.
Whereas HDP is more like initiating a phone call between two points and confirming that
you're talking to each other.
UDP is used often in streaming services.
If you stream videos or the like,
then you've likely encountered UDP for this demo.
We are going to build a very simple UDP server and you'd be client.
So let's start with the server first.
I'm going to create these two files.
The first is touch miscellaneous UDP dash server dot Js.
Then I'm gonna create touch miscellaneous UDP dash client dot Js Now that those exists,
open up to server at the top.
I'm going to write a comment that this is an example UDP server and that we're creating a
UDP data Graham server listening on 6000.
Next,
we're gonna have our dependencies.
We're going to use the data Graham module.
So we're going to say that Di Gram equals require di gram,
which is how note refers to the data Graham module.
But in order to create a server,
we really only need one part going to say that we are creating a server and we're going to
call off our server equal is Di Gram create socket.
And then we're gonna pass it UDP four as the specific type of UDP that it should create.
Now we need to configure what should happen if the server receives an incoming connection
because the server is going to send stuff down to the client.
But it still was going to receive the initial collection from the client.
So we need to call server on message.
We're gonna provide a call back and expect back a message buffer and the center Now we need
to do something with an incoming message core do something with the center was identified.
So we're gonna say that the message string is going to equal message,
buffer to strength and we can just log out whatever that is that they said a message
straight.
Lastly,
we need to start the server listening,
so we're gonna find to 6000 so server bind and pass it 6000.
Now,
that's create that client.
I'm gonna open up the client document and at the top,
I'm saying that this is an example UDP client sending a message to a UDP server in Port
6000 again,
we're just gonna have the one dependency Vardy Graham equals require di gram.
We're gonna create the client.
Our client is going to equal di gram,
create socket you d p four.
If you'll note So far,
we're doing the same thing.
That is because the clients and the servers for UDP or pretty much the same protocol UDP
doesn't really care about the distinction between client and server.
We're creating that distinction arbitrarily here.
Now we want to defined the message and pull it into a buffer of our message.
String is going to equal.
This is a message.
Now we need to convert it to a buffer.
So far,
message Buffer is going to equal buffer.
We're gonna use that global buffer.
There's always available to us from message strength.
So that's going to say,
create a new buffer.
Instead,
she ate a new buffer and base it on this message.
During that we've had to find.
Now we want to send off the message.
So for that,
will call client send will send it the message Buffer would tell it to send it to Port 6000
on the host local host.
And then we'll expect back and air when it calls.
Bear will call client close and that'll be it.
So let's try this out again.
I'm going to open up two tabs in the first cab.
I'm gonna call node miscellaneous UDP server just started up and now that's running.
I'm going to go to the other tab and call a node Miscellaneous you d p dash client dot Js
which will send off this message.
So it sent off that message and then it exited because it has nothing left to do.
If you go back to the server,
we can see that it received and logged out.
This is a message you might be saying.
Didn't you say that in UDP thes servers air sending messages down to the clients,
not the other way around?
Well,
yes and no.
Like HDB to the UDP protocol doesn't much care between the distinction of client and server
as I mentioned.
And so,
in our case,
we're using a client to send a message up to the server.
If we wanted to stream video down for a client from the server,
we could do that.
Justus.
Well,
here we have used that distinction to say that the client is the thing that sends We've
just called it a client you tp server was.
Instead she did the same way Di gram don't create socket.
And we called it a server,
so that really doesn't matter.
The distinction is arbitrary,
and it's really just to help conceptualize the situation.
So with that,
we can kill this server and move onto the next lecture